---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly Guide ：Week 12"
date:   2018-04-15
language: english
categories: weekly
permalink: "/en/guide/wk12.html"
weekNum: 12
---

<div id="top"></div>

<div id="forward"></div>
## Forward

We are now completing the reading on the Book of Leviticus and starting on the Book of Numbers.

Tips and highlights of this week’s reading:

* Leviticus records the law God gave to Israelites on the Mount Saini to help them to be holy, to be
gracious, and to live out a righteous life in loving relationship with God and other people. 

* Understanding God’s holiness is required to be holy. God’s holiness was revealed in their history how
God lead the Israelites as a relationship. So, the result of our holiness should not be expressed only as
our actions, but the outcome of our hearts. As apostle Paul said: “May the Lord make your love increase
and overflow for each other and for everyone else, just as ours does for you. May he strengthen your
hearts so that you will be blameless and holy in the presence of our God and Father when our Lord Jesus
comes with all his holy ones.” (`1 Thessalonians 3:12-13`)

* The Book of Numbers is the account of God’s work in rebuilding the Israelites. After leaving Mount Saini,
the Israelites wandered in the wilderness for 40 years and finally entered the promised land in the plains
of Moab.

May you all be renewed in God’s word!

<hr>
<div id="day1"></div>
## Week 12 Day 1, The Sabbath Year

### Question: What are the regulations on blasphemy, killing, and Sabbath Year?

### Scripture Reading: Leviticus 24:10-25:55

### Meditation: God’s Story
* Leviticus 24:10-22 records the punishment laid upon a Gentile who blasphemed against God and
thus committed an offense of the 3 rd law of the ten commandments. “You are to have the same
law for the foreigner and the native-born. I am the Lord your God.”

* 25:1-22 are about the regulations on Sabbath Year and Year of Jubilee. 25:23-55 talks about the
necessary attitude toward property and poverty to realize the meaning of Sabbath Year and
Year of Jubilee.

### Meditation: My Story
* Walking with God – Sabbath occurs after 6 days of work. Sabbath Year occurs after 6 years of
work. The Year of Jubilee occurs once after every 49 years. What was God’s intention for these?
Do I know the true meaning of Sabbath? Do I often take refuge in God?

* Community – 24:17-22 records the punishments for injuring others and their animals. In 25:23-
55 records the attitude toward property and poverty. What is my attitude toward other people
around me and their property?

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 78

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day2"></div>
### Week 12 Day 2, Obedience and Disobedience

### Question: What are the blessings for being obedient and the punishments for disobedient?

### Scripture Reading: Leviticus 26

### Meditation: God’s Story
* Proclaim the blessings and punishments after the covenant was made.

* Verses 3 to 13 are the blessings: rain comes, crop grows, peace in the land, and Israelites’
number increase.

* Verses 14-46 are the punishments: disasters, crop dies, losing war, famine, and people die. Not
all disaster would come all at once. God always give His people chances to repent and turn
around. Each time a disaster strikes, the next disaster comes only “if in spite of these things you
do not accept my correction but continue to be hostile toward me.”

### Meditation: My Story
* Identity – God blesses His people. He blesses those who obey His commands and love Him. Do I
often see God’s mercy and love by counting the blessings He has bestowed on me?

* Integrity – God sends disaster to people not to punish them but to give them a chance to turn
around. What characters of God do I realize from the incremental disasters He places? Have I in
my life been reminded or impeded by Holy Spirit? Am I willing to understand His will and turn
around to obey Him?

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 79

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day3"></div>
### Week 12 Day 3, Redeeming what is Lord’s

### Question: How does man redeem from his vow to God?

### Scripture Reading: Leviticus 27

### Meditation: God’s Story
* Redeeming what is Lord’s is a very serious business. Man often take a vow to make wishes to
the Lord during distress but then forget his vow afterward. Bible often warned against this type
of behavior. This passage set a relatively high redeeming price with additional 20% for those
who forget their vows.

### Meditation: My Story
* Walking with God – God dislikes those who don’t follow through with their vows. We must be
prudent when signing a contract or making a promise. Have I made any promise to God, to my
spouse, my friends, or my children? Do I always keep my promises? What should I do if I’m ever
in breach of my promises?

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 80

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day4"></div>
### Week 12 Day 4, Census and Placement

### Question: How were the census conducted and tribes’ camps arranged?

### Scripture Reading: Numbers 1-2

### Meditation: God’s Story
* The first census and where each of the tribes were placed around the Tent of Meeting.

* The census was for “twenty years old or more and able to serve in the army.” (1:3) The tribes
were arranged according to their army divisions. God turned the Israelites from a group of
slaves into an army. He prepared them for war to fight their way into the promised land.

### Meditation: My Story
* Walking with God – The Israeli tribes were arranged around the Tabernacle to put God in the
center. Am I placing God in the center of my life?

* Identity – God promised Abraham to become a great nation when he had no hope of having
offspring. There were 603,550 man who were 20 or older, not counting the tribe of Levi. The
promise was being fulfilled one step at a time. Is the value of everything I see based on God’s
promise?

* Fidelity – He transformed the Israelites from slaves to army. Do I know that I was a slave of sin
and now, with God’s salvation, an elite solder of His army?

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 81

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day5"></div>
## Week 12 Day 5, Kingdom of Priests

### Question: How did God make Israel a kingdom of priests?

### Scripture Reading: Numbers 3-4

### Meditation: God’s Story
* Chapter 3 starts in Genesis like fashion with the lineage of the Levites.
* God established the kingdom of priests as the works for the tribe of Levi were around the
Tabernacle signifying God’s covenant with Israelites and His presence.

### Meditation: My Story
* Identity – Reference Genesis 49 and Exodus 32. Levites loved God and offered themselves to
God. Now God took the Levites as substitute for all Israelite firstborns to serve Him. Likewise,
when we turn to God, we are offering ourselves to Him and serve Him. Think about the
transformation God has done for my life.

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 82

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day6"></div>
## Week 12 Day 6, Holy Nation

### Question: How did God make Israelites the holy nation?

### Scripture Reading: Numbers 5-6

### Meditation: God’s Story
* God called the Israelites to become His holy nation.
* The laws to keep the Israelites clean:
1 Restitution for wrongs: to keep Israelites united.
2 Holy marriage: to keep the descendants clean.
3 Nazirites: a special testimony to God’s calling.
4 Aaron’s blessing: Reaffirmed God’s promises and pointed the Israelites to the promised
land.

### Meditation: My Story
* Community – God made the Israelites His and established laws and rules on restitution to keep
them united. Do I value the unity of Christians or am I damaging it?
* Fidelity – God put great emphasis on fidelity in marriage. Do I value my marriage as holy and
being faithful to my spouse?

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 83

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses

<hr>
<div id="day7"></div>
## Week 12 Day 7

### Scripture Reading: Psalm 84

### Meditation

### Prayer

### Notes and Responses
